added entry for memory management in c (#226)
Codecademy/docs: content/c/concepts/memory-management/memory-management.md

---
Title: 'Memory Management'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'

> Tags:

Reviewer: Please could we add a description here. Perhaps something like: 

Description: Memory management is the  process by which computer programs are assigned with physical or virtual memory space.
```

Author: ok sure.

## 2. Dynamic Memory Allocation

In this type of allocation system memory is managed at runtime. Dynamic memory management in C programming language is performed using four functions named `malloc()`, `calloc()`, `realloc()`, and `free()`. These four functions are defined in the C standard library header file `<stdlib.h>`. It uses the heap space of the system memory.

Let's know about each function in detail:

### 1. malloc()

`malloc()` function is used to allocate a block of memory in the heap. It allocates the user a specified number of bytes but does not initialize. Once allocated, the program accesses this block of memory via a pointer that `malloc()` returns. 

The default pointer returned by `malloc()` is of the type `void` but can be cast into a pointer of any data type. However, if the space is insufficient for the amount of memory requested by `malloc()`, then the allocation fails and a `NULL` pointer is returned.

```c
int *ptr; 

// The pointer ptr holds the address of the first byte in the allocated memory.
ptr = (int*) malloc(5 * sizeof(int));
```

Since the size of `int` is 4 bytes, the above statement will allocate 20 bytes (4 * 5) of memory. 

### 2. calloc()

> `calloc()` function is used to dynamically allocate the specified number of blocks of memory of the specified type. It is very much similar to `malloc()` but the difference is that it initializes each block with a default value `0` and it has two parameters as compare to `malloc()` which only have one parameter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`calloc()` function is used to dynamically allocate the specified number of blocks of memory of the specified type. It is very much similar to `malloc()` but the difference is that it initializes each block with a default value `0` and it has two parameters as compared to `malloc()` which only has one parameter. 
```

```c
int *ptr; 

// The pointer ptr holds the address of the first byte in the allocated memory.
ptr = (int*) calloc(5, sizeof(int));
```

The above statement allocates contiguous space in memory for 5 elements each with the size of the `int`.

### 3. realloc()

`realloc()` function is used to dynamically change the memory which was previously allocated. It means that if the memory that was previously allocated using the `malloc()` or `calloc()` function is not sufficient, so it can be reallocated using the `realloc()` function.

```c
int *ptr; 

// Memory allocated using malloc() function.
ptr = (int*) malloc(5 * sizeof(int));

// ptr is reallocated with 40 bytes (4 * 10) of memory.
ptr = realloc(ptr, 10 * sizeof(int));
```

### 4. free()

`free()` function is used to dynamically de-allocate the memory. The memory allocated using functions `malloc()` and `calloc()` must be de-allocated manually by the user using the `free()` function when not in use. It helps to reduce the wastage of memory by freeing it.

```c
int *ptr; 

// Memory allocated using malloc() function.
ptr = (int*) malloc(5 * sizeof(int));

// Memory de-allocated using free() function.
free(ptr);
```

> 

Reviewer: Please could we remove these trailing lines at the end
